hey folks
mouthing uh how to barbecue right killer
hogs championship barbecue team now talk
about my barbecued chicken entry for
KCBS don't practice it here we're
getting ready on Friday night as if
we're out of contest I like to keep a
pretty good timeline going to the same
things that I would do at home into
practicing that I would out of contests
what we normally do is buy packaged
chicken thighs I usually give them at
Sam's I family I've got pretty good
chicken ten percent all natural for
contests all they're two packs at home
practicing I'm just going to do one and
the reason why I do so many things
because when you get to trimming them
the more options you have to select from
the better chances are you're going to
get some good looking entries I hope to
find you know at least six perfect ones
in this pack I hadn't broke it hoping
yet but that's what I'm getting about to
do what we're going to do is I want to
break the chicken open trim it down to
my competition sizes taking them a
socket and tallying dress and I like to
use a zesty Italian dressing it's
nothing special it's just grow a brand
but it's kind of like a brine it starts
working the flavors and I like it to sit
in there for at least four hours but I
want to get them trimmed I'll probably
put this chicken in there put them back
in the fridge load and go overnight then
in the morning I like to fire my spoke
up about 8:00 and I like to get the
chicken on about 9:00 so at 8 o'clock
I'll take my chicken out of the
refrigerator let them come up to room
temp as I'm fired up my smoker I'll
drain them from the marinade real good
all the excess marinade off I'll
sprinkle and what I'm going to use is
this Plowboys yard bar rub I started
using it last year on my chicken entry
and had some really good luck some good
finishes hit a couple second places a
couple of first places with it and I
really like the flavor profile it has
what I'll do is I'll come back season
the chicken real good put it back down
migrate let it go about hour and a half
like tickling about 275 when it gets
done towards the end I'll take and put
it in a small foodservice pan and I'm
going to use some this Blues Hall
original mixed with some of this blues
on Tennessee red I'll do it about half
and 50/50 mixture half and half I'll
brush it on the pieces top and bottom
real good didn't real care for an awful
tear the skin or anything it'll set
stick that pan back in the cooker I'm
still on 275 on the top rack and let it
really set that sauce and that's where
you get your good color from what are
you ready to turn the chicken in and
something you know the 11:30 contest day
I'm taking the chicken out
you know touching it up there's anything
these touched up looking for the perfect
pieces then I'm coming back with some of
the smoking guns hot to finish it it's
like a finishing row so what I'll do is
I'll take that finely grind it up to a
coffee grinder sprinkle it over the top
of that chicken and brush out a little
more of the sauce mix and is that glaze
is back on it'll caramelize that last
bit of rub this just makes a really
great layer of flavors on the back end
that's the first thing that judges taste
they take a bite of that chicken they're
like a perfect bite their skin great
smoke texture great flavor from the the
rubs and the sauces and just makes the
perfect entry overall that's uh that's
my secret to chicken I've had pretty
good luck with it it's probably the
easiest category out of the four to cook
but some people don't don't get the skin
the way they wanted or you know the
grilling and all the what's going on but
I found to be the part the easiest entry
so that's what we're gonna do just play
with some of these other flavors today